  # Configuration

### prefix

The prefix used for the CSS variables generated by the preset. Default is `--un-preset-radix`.

### darkSelector

The selector used for dark mode palette. Default is `.dark-theme`.

### lightSelector

The selector used for dark mode palette. Default is `:root, .light-theme`.

### aliases

A key value object of color aliases in the format `alias: target` that allows you to set aliases for the color palette.
You cannot set aliases to other aliases.
You cannot set aliases to `black` or `white`.
The Alias name can not be a Radix Hue names.
Alpha variants for aliases are generated automatically, so for then given alias `brand: blue`, an alias `brandA: blueA` will also be generated.

### extend

A boolean that sets whether or not the preset will completely overwrite or merge with the previous palette. Default is `false`.

### useP3Colors 

A boolean that sets whether or not to use the P3 colors. Default is `false`. 
Note when using P3 colors, rgb colors are also added as fallbacks.

### safelistColors

An array of the Radix UI Colors or Specific shades of a color you'd like to safelist. Dark mode and alpha variants are automatically.

### safelistAliases

An array of the Aliases you'd like to safelist. All 12 shades will be added automatically. Dark mode and alpha variants are automatically.
The aliases should be present in aliases object.

### onlyOneTheme

If you only want to use `dark` or `light` theme, set this to `light` or `dark` respectively. So, CSS variables for other theme is not added to CSS. Default is `undefined`.
When onlyOneTheme is set to `dark` or `light`, the darkSelector and lightSelector will be ignored and all CSS variables will be added to the :root selector.