# Configuration

## `prefix`

The prefix used for the CSS variables generated by the preset.

Default is `--un-preset-radix`.

## `darkSelector`

The selector used for dark mode palette.

Default is `.dark-theme`.

## `lightSelector`

The selector used for dark mode palette.

Default is `:root, .light-theme`.

## `useP3Colors`

A boolean that sets whether or not to use the P3 colors.

Default is `false`.

Note when using P3 colors, rgb colors are also added as fallbacks.

## `aliases`

A key value object of color aliases in the format `alias: hue` that allows you to set aliases for the color palette. For example:

`aliases: { brand: 'blue', success: 'green', danger: 'tomato' }`

- Alias name must contain only lowercases letters and hyphens (`-`).
- You cannot set aliases to `black` or `white`.
- You cannot set aliases to other aliases.
- The alias name can not be a Radix Hue names, `black`, or `white`.
- Alpha steps and `fg` are generated automatically, so if you have alias `brand: blue`, you can use `bg-brand2A` and `c-brand-fg`.

## `safelist`

An array of colors or aliases you want to preserve. This is useful when you might have classes added to your project on runtime (ex from user input or over network).

example: `safelist: ['blue4', 'red5A', 'amber-fg', 'green', 'danger4A', 'base-fg', 'success']`

You can preserve an specific steps of a hue. Like `blue4`, `red5A`, `amber-fg`, etc.
You can preserve an all steps (12 steps + 12 alpha steps + `fg` step) of a hue. Like `blue`, `red`, `amber`, etc.
You can preserve an specific steps of an alias. Like `success4`, `warning5A`, `base-fg`, etc.
You can preserve an all steps of an alias (12 steps + 12 alpha steps + `fg` step). Like `success`, `warning`, `base`, etc.

::: warning  
Any safelist alias must be defined in aliases option, otherwise it will be ignored.
:::

Dark mode and alpha variants are automatically.

## `onlyOneTheme`

If you only want to use `dark` or `light` theme, set this to `light` or `dark` respectively. So, CSS variables for other theme is not added to CSS.

Default is `undefined`.

When onlyOneTheme is set to `dark` or `light`, the darkSelector and lightSelector will be ignored and all CSS variables will be added to the `:root` selector.

## `layer`

The name of unocss layer that CSS variables are added to.

Default is `undefined`.

## `extend`

A boolean that sets whether or not the preset will completely overwrite or merge with the previous palette.

Default is `false`.
